Page 
Data Science Study Group
Feb. 2022
Meeting 0 Notes

This study group is to promote and assist each other in the understanding and presentation of Data Science projects and ideas. 


1. Each member commits to speaking between 5 and 45 minutes on a topic of their own choice related to Data Science. Talks will be no more than 45 minutes to leave time for group discussion and questions.
2. This group will run for 3 months or (1,2,4,5)
3. Accountabilities groups/partners - How do we want to implement this?
4. Asynchronous communication
   1. GitHub Issues / Projects
   2. Slack
5. A goal of this group is to build projects that could be used in a personal portfolio. These projects will have content of our own design and construction. 
6. An additional goal of these projects will be they blogged or post on a public forum to better publicize the work.
7. Everyone agrees that teaching/mentorship is important.
8. This group is a welcoming space. We are open to constructive comments in the spirit of scientific debate.
9. Each person should be prepared to attend meetings every second week for a period of time agreed upon by its members. 
10. This group is open to all levels. An informal closed-to-the-public group.
11. The session's content should come from its members.
12. We want these groups to be democratically organized.
13. 

















Q. What topics and formats interest you?
* A book club group (Practical Statistics for Data Scientists… Using R and Python 2ed 2020 by Peter Bruce)
* A group that just does study problems (e.g., from Kaggle)
* A project-based group
* SQL (?)
* mock live interviews (with another person)? 
* Logistic regression, 
* support vector machines,
* KNN, K-means, Decision Trees, 
* R, 
* Python
* Scientists need to work together: (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IznDRIf30ZQ)
* How to make Distill page web pages
* Code review among members
* How to make Portfolio using GitHub page or a Jekyll minima GitHub.io, 
* Installing Anaconda
* What is Data Science Basics, 
* Data science in the cloud


There is more to Data Science than just Algorithms: discussing, sharing concepts/learnings related to, but not exclusively, the following topics:
   1. Visualization/EDA
   2. ML Concepts / Algorithms
   3. Statistics
   4. Probability
   5. SQL
   6. Coding
   7. Scalability/Big Data
   8. Product Sense
   9. Leadership/Behavioral skills












IDEAS


Oladetohun Oluwakorede Emmanuel
I like to drop some additions, having accountabilities partners would help since people are in different time zones, they can do their stuff in different time zones then have a general meeting during the weekend.


Irina: 
* I suggest we meet once to get to know each other, talk through the notes we have here, and decide on the main things like: meeting frequency, types of topics, format, additional communication channels etc.


Adanai:

Note: This is just my personal opinion, please take my two cents with a pinch of salt

Thank you for the initiative and efforts. I want to apologize beforehand, if I seem to be blunt, but I have been in too many such groups which start off with a lot of excitement and vigor, but eventually simply exist and have no activity going on whatsoever, which benefits no one. However, I do want this group to make an effort and succeed.


TL;DR: We should do a rerun of MLZoomcamp, but in depth


Below are a few points I would suggest the group be wary of/focus on. Other members can contribute to it:
1. Define scope and execution of the group at the macro and micro level
   1. Focusing on too many things in the beginning never seems to be a good idea. We should start small and then expand our horizons (in terms of topics)
   2. Instead of expanding horizontally, it would be better to expand vertically
   3. We should pick a base reference and build from thereon in each session
   4. Macro level: In my opinion the perfect base is MLZoomcamp and the topics covered under it. My assumption is most of us are already part of DTC and have some idea of MLZoomcamp. Regardless of experience level, this framework can help.
   5. Micro level:  If you are new to MLZ, first refer to the lectures. For intermediate experienced members, the sessions/topics would go one-two levels deeper into the topics already covered(Get into the math/implementations). If you are an expert in the topic, you could help the lower experienced members/draft quizzes and get a revision of the topics (nothing like helping out peers).
   6. In terms of organizing a session, one session should cover only one DSBit. A DSbit is the smallest concept unit, you wouldn’t ideally be able to break it down further to a lot more sub-topics. Eg. Regression is not a DSBit, but Linear Regression, Regularized regression are different DSbits
2. Members could be from different time zones, it would not be possible for all to attend due to time difference/work/personal reasons/lack of interest in the topic
   1. It is important that we aggregate the session contents in a single source
   2. Sessions should be timed in a way that most can participate
   3. Transcripts/recordings should be preserved, if possible
3. There is more to Data Science than just Algorithms
   1. Building on point 1b, we can go deeper by discussing, sharing concepts/learnings related to, but not exclusively, the following topics:
      1. Visualization/EDA
      2. ML Concepts / Algorithms
      3. Statistics
      4. Probability
      5. SQL
      6. Coding
      7. Scalability/Big Data
      8. Product Sense
      9. Leadership/Behavioral skills
   2. In the discussion sessions, let us not spend too much time on ‘meta’ stuff as mentioned in the DTC guidelines. Need to know what data science is? There are tons of great articles on what it actually is. Let’s create value in the time we spend together as a group. Topics/Questions/Discussions that make us think deeper into the field.(Eg. How is the feature importances in random forests calculated?)


If the objectives are clear and members are determined to learn and contribute equally, we can do wonders as a group. It is not easy, but do-able. If the sustainability/interest in the group peters out within weeks, we’d rather not do anything and save a lot of effort and time